# MODEL9810152478: Maleckar2008_AtrialMyocyte

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL9810152478.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL9810152478.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Mathematical simulations of ligand-gated and cell-type specific effects on the action potential of human atrium.**   
Maleckar MM, Greenstein JL, Trayanova NA, Giles WR. _Prog Biophys Mol Biol._
2008; 98(2-3):161-70 [19186188](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19186188) ,  
**Abstract:**   
In the mammalian heart, myocytes and fibroblasts can communicate via gap
junction, or connexin-mediated current flow. Some of the effects of this
electroto nic coupling on the action potential waveform of the human
ventricular myocyte have been analyzed in detail. The present study employs a
recently developed mathematical model of the human atrial myocyte to
investigate the consequences of this heterogeneous cell-cell interaction on
the action potential of the human atrium. Two independent physiological
processes which alter the physiology of the human atrium have been studied. i)
The effects of the autonomic tra nsmitter acetylcholine on the atrial action
potential have been investigated by inclusion of a time-independent,
acetylcholine-activated K(+) current in th is mathematical model of the atrial
myocyte. ii) A non-selective cation current which is activated by natriuretic
peptides has been incorporated into a pre viously published mathematical model
of the cardiac fibroblast. These results identify subtle effects of
acetylcholine, which arise from the nonlinear inte ractions between ionic
currents in the human atrial myocyte. They also illustrate marked alterations
in the action potential waveform arising from fibrobla st-myocyte source-sink
principles when the natriuretic peptide-mediated cation conductance is
activated. Additional calculations also illustrate the effect s of
simultaneous activation of both of these cell-type specific conductances
within the atrial myocardium. This study provides a basis for beginning to as
sess the utility of mathematical modeling in understanding detailed cell-cell
interactions within the complex paracrine environment of the human atrial myo
cardium.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Maleckar MM, Greenstein JL, Trayanova NA, Giles
WR. (2009) - version01** ](http://www.cellml.org/models/maleckar_greenstein_tr
ayanova_giles_2009_version01)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Fink, Martin,**   
martin.fink@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
The University of Oxford  
Department of Physiology, Anatomy & Genetics  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


